impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient4.adoc, before:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 4

Part 4 - Implementing a Stop Word Filter
---------------------------------------

In the previous installement we showed how to write a custom
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/package-summary.html[Operation]
for a Cascading 2.0 application. If you haven’t read that yet, it’s probably
best to start there.

Today’s lesson takes that same Word Count app and expands on it to implement a
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_words[stop words] filter, which is a list of
tokens to nix from the stream. We’ll show how to use
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/HashJoin.html[HashJoin]
on two pipes, so we can perform that filtering at scale. Again, this code is
leading toward an implementation of TF-IDF in Cascading. We’ll show best
practices for workflow orchestration and test-driven development (TDD) at scale.

Theory
~~~~~~

The first question to consider is, why do we want to use a stop words list?
After all, the TF-IDF algorithm is supposed to filter out the less significant
words anyway. Why would we need to include additional filtering if the TF-IDF
is implemented correctly?

Use of a stop words list originated in work by
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hans_Peter_Luhn[Hans Peter Luhn] at IBM Research,
during the dawn of computing. The reasons for it are two-fold. On one hand,
consider that the most common words in any given natural language are generally
not useful for http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text_analytics[text analytics]. For
example in English, words such as ``the``, ``of``, ``and`` are probably not what
you want to search, and probably not interesting for Word Count metrics. They
represent the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_Tail[long tail] of the token
distribution: high frequency, low semantic value. Consequently, they cause the
bulk of the processing. Natural languages tend to have on the order of *10^5*
words, so the potential size of any stop words list is nicely bounded.
Filtering those high-frequency words out of the token stream reduces the amount
processing required later in the workflow, dramatically.

On the other hand, you may also want to remove some words explicitly from the
token stream. This almost always comes up in practice, especially when working
with public discussions such as social network comments. Think about it, what
are some of the most common words posted online in comments? Words which are not
the most common words in “polite” English? Based on the math for TF-IDF, those
would tend to get ranked highest. Do you really want those words to bubble up to
the “most significant” positions in your text analytics? In automated systems
which leverage http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unsupervised_learning[unsupervised
learning], this can lead to *highly embarrassing* situations. _Caveat
machinator_.

Next, let's consider about working with a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/joiner/package-summary.html[Joiner]
in Cascading. We will have two pipes, one for the “scrubbed” token stream and
another for the stop words list.  We want to filter all instances of tokens from
the stop words list out of the token stream. If we weren’t working in MapReduce,
a naive approach would simply load the stop words list into a hashtable, then
iterate through our token stream to lookup each token in the hashtable and
delete it if found. If we were coding in Hadoop directly, a less naive approach
would be to put the stop words list into the
http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/api/org/apache/hadoop/filecache/DistributedCache.html[distributed
cache] and have a job step which loads it during setup, then rinse/lather/repeat
from the naive coding approach described above.

Instead we want to leverage the workflow orchestration in Cascading. One might
try to write a custom operation in Cascading, as we did in Part 3 — e.g., a
custom
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/filter/package-summary.html[Filter].
That sounds like extra work, plus also extra code to verify and maintain, when
the built-in primatives will to tend to be more efficient anyway.

Cascading provides for _joins_ on pipes, and conceptually a
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/406294/left-join-and-left-outer-join-in-sql-server[Left
Outer Join] would solve our requirement to filter stop words. Think of joining
the token stream with the stop words list. When the result is non-null, the join
has identified a stop word. Discard it.

Understand that there's a big problem with using joins in MapReduce. Outside of
the context of a relational database, arbitrary joins do not work efficiently.
Suppose you have *N* items in one tuple stream and *M* items in another, and want
to join them? In the general case, for an arbitrary join, that requires *N x M*
operations and also introduces a data dependeny, such that the join cannot be
performed in parallel. If both *N* and *M* are relatively large, say in the
millions of tuples, then we’d end up processing *10^12* operations on a single
processor — which kind of defeats the purpose, in terms of leveraging
MapReduce.

Fortunately, if some of that data is
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sparse_matrix[sparse] then we can use specific
variants of joins to compute efficiently in parallel. Cascading includes a
HashJoin which joins two or more tuple streams into a single stream via a Joiner -
when all but one tuple stream are small enough to fit into memory. In other
words, given some insights about the ``shape`` of the data, when you have a large
data set (non-sparse) you can join with one or more small data sets (sparse) in
memory.

A join has a left-hand side (LHS) and a right-hand side (RHS); in Cascading we
put the sparser data on the right-hand side. So the
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/HashJoin.html[HashJoin]
implements a non-blocking ``asymmetrical join`` or ``replicated join``, where the
left-most side will not block (accumulate into memory) in order to complete the
join, but the right-most sides will.

Recall that stop words lists tend to be bounded at approximately *10^5*, which is
relatively sparse when compared with an arbitrarily large token stream. In
typical ``web scale`` text analytics use cases for TF-IDF, that might be in the
range billions of tokens, i.e., several orders of magnitude larger than our
largest possible stop words list. Sounds like a great use case for HashJoin.

A conceptual diagram for this implementation of Word Count in Cascading is
shown as:

image:plumb4.png[]

Source
~~~~~~

You can find all code in the `part4` sub-directory. The input data stays the
same as in the earlier parts of the series.

This example in _Part 4_ uses a HashJoin in Cascading to implement a stop words
list, filtering some words out of the token stream prior to counting.

First, let’s add another source tap to read the stop words list as an input
data set:

[source,java]
----
String stopPath = args[ 2 ];
Fields stop = new Fields( "stop" );
Tap stopTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( stop, true, "\t" ), stopPath );
----

Next we’ll insert another pipe into the assembly, placing `tokenPipe` between our
“scrub” and “count” sections of our workflow. That’s where the HashJoin gets
performed, implementing a left join:

[source,java]
----
// perform a left join to remove stop words, discarding the rows
// which joined with stop words, i.e., were non-null after left join
Pipe stopPipe = new Pipe( "stop" );
Pipe tokenPipe = new HashJoin( docPipe, token, stopPipe, stop, new LeftJoin() );
----

Next we discard the non-null results from the left join, using a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/regex/RegexFilter.html[RegexFilter]:

[source,java]
----
tokenPipe = new Each( tokenPipe, stop, new RegexFilter( "^$" ) );
----

Now this new `tokenPipe` can be fitted back into the `wcPipe` which we used
before. The workflow continues on much the same from there:

[source,java]
----
Pipe wcPipe = new Pipe( "wc", tokenPipe );
----

Last, we’ll add the additional source tap to the `FlowDef`, to include input data
for our stop words list:

[source,java]
----
// connect the taps, pipes, etc., into a flow
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef()
 .setName( "wc" )
 .addSource( docPipe, docTap )
 .addSource( stopPipe, stopTap )
 .addTailSink( wcPipe, wcTap );
----

Modify the `Main` method to make those changes, then build a JAR file. You should
be good to go. For those keeping score, the resulting physical plan in
MapReduce for Part 4 still uses one mapper and one reducer.

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the dot/ subdirectory after the
app runs. Here we have annotated it to show where the mapper and reducer phases
are running, and also the section which was added since Part 3:

image:wc_part4.png[]

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

To run the app, do the following:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/wc data/en.stop

Output text gets stored in the partition file `output/wc` which you can then verify:

    more output/wc/part-00000

Here’s a link:part4.log[log] file from our run of the
sample app, part 4. If your run looks terribly different, something is probably
not set up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email forum.

For those familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script, and to run that:

[source,java]
----
rm -rf output
mkdir -p dot
pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc -p stopPath=./data/en.stop ./src/scripts/wc.pig
----

Commit message:

added paragraph to the next part in each part and included a link back to the overview in the footer

impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient4.adoc, after:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 4

Part 4 - Implementing a Stop Word Filter
---------------------------------------

In the previous installement we showed how to write a custom
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/package-summary.html[Operation]
for a Cascading 2.0 application. If you haven’t read that yet, it’s probably
best to start there.

Today’s lesson takes that same Word Count app and expands on it to implement a
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_words[stop words] filter, which is a list of
tokens to nix from the stream. We’ll show how to use
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/HashJoin.html[HashJoin]
on two pipes, so we can perform that filtering at scale. Again, this code is
leading toward an implementation of TF-IDF in Cascading. We’ll show best
practices for workflow orchestration and test-driven development (TDD) at scale.

Theory
~~~~~~

The first question to consider is, why do we want to use a stop words list?
After all, the TF-IDF algorithm is supposed to filter out the less significant
words anyway. Why would we need to include additional filtering if the TF-IDF
is implemented correctly?

Use of a stop words list originated in work by
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hans_Peter_Luhn[Hans Peter Luhn] at IBM Research,
during the dawn of computing. The reasons for it are two-fold. On one hand,
consider that the most common words in any given natural language are generally
not useful for http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text_analytics[text analytics]. For
example in English, words such as ``the'', ``of'', ``and'' are probably not what
you want to search, and probably not interesting for Word Count metrics. They
represent the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_Tail[long tail] of the token
distribution: high frequency, low semantic value. Consequently, they cause the
bulk of the processing. Natural languages tend to have on the order of *10^5*
words, so the potential size of any stop words list is nicely bounded.
Filtering those high-frequency words out of the token stream reduces the amount
processing required later in the workflow, dramatically.

On the other hand, you may also want to remove some words explicitly from the
token stream. This almost always comes up in practice, especially when working
with public discussions such as social network comments. Think about it, what
are some of the most common words posted online in comments? Words which are not
the most common words in “polite” English? Based on the math for TF-IDF, those
would tend to get ranked highest. Do you really want those words to bubble up to
the “most significant” positions in your text analytics? In automated systems
which leverage http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unsupervised_learning[unsupervised
learning], this can lead to *highly embarrassing* situations. _Caveat
machinator_.

Next, let's consider about working with a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/joiner/package-summary.html[Joiner]
in Cascading. We will have two pipes, one for the “scrubbed” token stream and
another for the stop words list.  We want to filter all instances of tokens from
the stop words list out of the token stream. If we weren’t working in MapReduce,
a naive approach would simply load the stop words list into a hashtable, then
iterate through our token stream to lookup each token in the hashtable and
delete it if found. If we were coding in Hadoop directly, a less naive approach
would be to put the stop words list into the
http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/api/org/apache/hadoop/filecache/DistributedCache.html[distributed
cache] and have a job step which loads it during setup, then rinse/lather/repeat
from the naive coding approach described above.

Instead we want to leverage the workflow orchestration in Cascading. One might
try to write a custom operation in Cascading, as we did in Part 3 — e.g., a
custom
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/filter/package-summary.html[Filter].
That sounds like extra work, plus also extra code to verify and maintain, when
the built-in primatives will to tend to be more efficient anyway.

Cascading provides for _joins_ on pipes, and conceptually a
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/406294/left-join-and-left-outer-join-in-sql-server[Left
Outer Join] would solve our requirement to filter stop words. Think of joining
the token stream with the stop words list. When the result is non-null, the join
has identified a stop word. Discard it.

Understand that there's a big problem with using joins in MapReduce. Outside of
the context of a relational database, arbitrary joins do not work efficiently.
Suppose you have *N* items in one tuple stream and *M* items in another, and want
to join them? In the general case, for an arbitrary join, that requires *N x M*
operations and also introduces a data dependeny, such that the join cannot be
performed in parallel. If both *N* and *M* are relatively large, say in the
millions of tuples, then we’d end up processing *10^12* operations on a single
processor — which kind of defeats the purpose, in terms of leveraging
MapReduce.

Fortunately, if some of that data is
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sparse_matrix[sparse] then we can use specific
variants of joins to compute efficiently in parallel. Cascading includes a
HashJoin which joins two or more tuple streams into a single stream via a Joiner -
when all but one tuple stream are small enough to fit into memory. In other
words, given some insights about the ``shape'' of the data, when you have a large
data set (non-sparse) you can join with one or more small data sets (sparse) in
memory.

A join has a left-hand side (LHS) and a right-hand side (RHS); in Cascading we
put the sparser data on the right-hand side. So the
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/HashJoin.html[HashJoin]
implements a non-blocking ``asymmetrical join'' or ``replicated join'', where the
left-most side will not block (accumulate into memory) in order to complete the
join, but the right-most sides will.

Recall that stop words lists tend to be bounded at approximately *10^5*, which is
relatively sparse when compared with an arbitrarily large token stream. In
typical ``web scale'' text analytics use cases for TF-IDF, that might be in the
range billions of tokens, i.e., several orders of magnitude larger than our
largest possible stop words list. Sounds like a great use case for HashJoin.

A conceptual diagram for this implementation of Word Count in Cascading is
shown as:

image:plumb4.png[]

Source
~~~~~~

You can find all code in the `part4` sub-directory. The input data stays the
same as in the earlier parts of the series.

This example in _Part 4_ uses a HashJoin in Cascading to implement a stop words
list, filtering some words out of the token stream prior to counting.

First, let’s add another source tap to read the stop words list as an input
data set:

[source,java]
----
String stopPath = args[ 2 ];
Fields stop = new Fields( "stop" );
Tap stopTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( stop, true, "\t" ), stopPath );
----

Next we’ll insert another pipe into the assembly, placing `tokenPipe` between our
“scrub” and “count” sections of our workflow. That’s where the HashJoin gets
performed, implementing a left join:

[source,java]
----
// perform a left join to remove stop words, discarding the rows
// which joined with stop words, i.e., were non-null after left join
Pipe stopPipe = new Pipe( "stop" );
Pipe tokenPipe = new HashJoin( docPipe, token, stopPipe, stop, new LeftJoin() );
----

Next we discard the non-null results from the left join, using a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/regex/RegexFilter.html[RegexFilter]:

[source,java]
----
tokenPipe = new Each( tokenPipe, stop, new RegexFilter( "^$" ) );
----

Now this new `tokenPipe` can be fitted back into the `wcPipe` which we used
before. The workflow continues on much the same from there:

[source,java]
----
Pipe wcPipe = new Pipe( "wc", tokenPipe );
----

Last, we’ll add the additional source tap to the `FlowDef`, to include input data
for our stop words list:

[source,java]
----
// connect the taps, pipes, etc., into a flow
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef()
 .setName( "wc" )
 .addSource( docPipe, docTap )
 .addSource( stopPipe, stopTap )
 .addTailSink( wcPipe, wcTap );
----

Modify the `Main` method to make those changes, then build a JAR file. You should
be good to go. For those keeping score, the resulting physical plan in
MapReduce for Part 4 still uses one mapper and one reducer.

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the `dot/` subdirectory after the
app runs. Here we have annotated it to show where the mapper and reducer phases
are running, and also the section which was added since Part 3:

image:wc_part4.png[]

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

To run the app, do the following:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/wc data/en.stop

Output text gets stored in the partition file `output/wc` which you can then verify:

    more output/wc/part-00000

Here’s a link:part4.log[log] file from our run of the
sample app, part 4. If your run looks terribly different, something is probably
not set up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email forum.

For those familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script, and to run that:

[source,java]
----
rm -rf output
mkdir -p dot
pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc -p stopPath=./data/en.stop ./src/scripts/wc.pig
----

Next
----
link:impatient5.html[Part 5] of Cascading for the Impatient implements the
TF-IDF with Cascading.
