impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient5.adoc, before:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 5

Part 5 - Implementing TF-IDF in Cascading
-----------------------------------------

This part builds on the Word Count app from the previous chapter and now
implements TF-IDF in Cascading. We'll show how to use a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/assembly/SumBy.html[SumBy]
and a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/CoGroup.html[CoGroup]
to aggregate the data needed, and then how to use an
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/expression/ExpressionFunction.html[ExpressionFunction]
to calculate the TF-IDF weights. We also continue to show best practices for
workflow orchestration and test-driven development (TDD) at scale.

Theory
~~~~~~

Fortunately, all of the data required to calculate TF-IDF weight was already
available in our Word Count example in Part 4. However, we’ll need to revise the
overall workflow, adding more pipe assemblies to it.

TF-IDF calculates a metric for each token which indicates how ``important`` that
token is to a document _within the context of a collection of documents_. The
metric is calculated based on relative frequencies. On one hand, tokens which
appear in most documents tend to have very low TF-IDF weights. On the other
hand, tokens which are less common but appear multiple times in a few documents
tend to have very high TF-IDF weights. Consequently, the TF-IDF algorithm gets
used to drive the indexing in some text search engines, such as
http://lucene.apache.org/core/[Apache Lucene].  In particular, TF-IDF provides
an effective way to rank documents for a search query. For a good discussion of
this in gory detail, see the
http://lucene.apache.org/core/2_9_4/api/all/org/apache/lucene/search/Similarity.html[Similarity]
class in Lucene.

Note that in the literature, `token` and `term` may be used interchangeably for
this sample app. More advanced text analytics might look at sequences of words,
in which case a `term` becomes a more complex structure. However, we’re only
looking at single words.

We’ll need the following components to calculate TF-IDF:

- term count: number of times a given term appears in a given document
- document frequency: how frequently a given term appears across all documents
- number of terms: total number of terms in a given document
- document count: total number of documents

Slight modifications to Word Count provides the means to get both term count
and document frequency, along with the other two components which get
calculated almost as by-products. In this sense, we get to leverage Cascading
by re-using the results of some pipes within our workflow. A conceptual diagram
for this implementation of TF-IDF in Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb5.png[scaledwidth="75%"]

Source
~~~~~~

Look for the `part5` directory, you will find everything in there.

First, let's add another sink tap to write the TF-IDF weights as an output data set:

[source,java]
----
String tfidfPath = args[ 3 ];
Tap tfidfTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( true, "\t" ), tfidfPath );
----

Next we'll modify the existing pipe assemblies for Word Count, beginning
immediately after the ``stop words`` filter. We add the following line to retain
only the doc_id and token fields:

[source,java]
----
tokenPipe = new Retain( tokenPipe, fieldSelector );
----

Then we re-use the intermediate results from `tokenPipe`, creating three
different branches in the workflow. The first addresses _term counts_:

[source,java]
----
// one branch of the flow tallies the token counts for term frequency (TF)
Pipe tfPipe = new Pipe( "TF", tokenPipe );
tfPipe = new GroupBy( tfPipe, new Fields( "doc_id", "token" ) );
Fields tf_count = new Fields( "tf_count" );
tfPipe = new Every( tfPipe, Fields.ALL, new Count( tf_count ), Fields.ALL );
Fields tf_token = new Fields( "tf_token" );
tfPipe = new Rename( tfPipe, token, tf_token );
----

At that point, we have _TF_ values for each token.

In a second branch we'll calculate _D_, the total number of documents in a way
which can be consumed later in a join. This uses a built-in partial aggregate
operation called
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/assembly/SumBy.html[SumBy]:

[source,java]
----
// one branch counts the number of documents (D)
Fields doc_id = new Fields( "doc_id" );
Fields tally = new Fields( "tally" );
Fields rhs_join = new Fields( "rhs_join" );
Fields n_docs = new Fields( "n_docs" );
Pipe dPipe = new Unique( "D", tokenPipe, doc_id );
dPipe = new Each( dPipe, new Insert( tally, 1 ), Fields.ALL );
dPipe = new Each( dPipe, new Insert( rhs_join, 1 ), Fields.ALL );
dPipe = new SumBy( dPipe, rhs_join, tally, n_docs, long.class );
----

This part may seem less than intuitive... and it is a bit odd. We need a total
document count as a field, in each tuple for the RHS of the join. That keeps
our processing parallel, allowing this calculation to scale-out horizontally.

The third branch calculates _DF_ as a step toward _inverse document frequency per
token_:

[source,java]
----
// one branch tallies the token counts for document frequency (DF)
Pipe dfPipe = new Unique( "DF", tokenPipe, Fields.ALL );
dfPipe = new GroupBy( dfPipe, token );
Fields df_count = new Fields( "df_count" );
Fields df_token = new Fields( "df_token" );
Fields lhs_join = new Fields( "lhs_join" );
dfPipe = new Every( dfPipe, Fields.ALL, new Count( df_count ), Fields.ALL );
dfPipe = new Rename( dfPipe, token, df_token );
dfPipe = new Each( dfPipe, new Insert( lhs_join, 1 ), Fields.ALL );
----

Now we have all the components needed to calculate TF-IDF weights. We’ll use two
kinds of joins - a HashJoin followed by a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/CoGroup.html[CoGroup] -
to merge the three branches together:

[source,java]
----
// join to bring together all the components for calculating TF-IDF
// the D side of the join is smaller, so it goes on the RHS
Pipe idfPipe = new HashJoin( dfPipe, lhs_join, dPipe, rhs_join );

// the IDF side of the join is smaller, so it goes on the RHS
Pipe tfidfPipe = new CoGroup( tfPipe, tf_token, idfPipe, df_token );
----

Then we calculate the weights using an
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/expression/ExpressionFunction.html[ExpressionFunction]
in Cascading:

[source,java]
----
// calculate the TF-IDF weights, per token, per document
Fields tfidf = new Fields( "tfidf" );
String expression = "(double) tf_count * Math.log( (double) n_docs / ( 1.0 + df_count ) )";
ExpressionFunction tfidfExpression = new ExpressionFunction( tfidf, expression, Double.class );
Fields tfidfArguments = new Fields( "tf_count", "df_count", "n_docs" );
tfidfPipe = new Each( tfidfPipe, tfidfArguments, tfidfExpression, Fields.ALL );
fieldSelector = new Fields( "tf_token", "doc_id", "tfidf" );
tfidfPipe = new Retain( tfidfPipe, fieldSelector );
tfidfPipe = new Rename( tfidfPipe, tf_token, token );
----

Now we can get back to the remainder of the workflow. We’ll keep the actual
Word Count metrics, since those are useful for testing:

[source,java]
----
// keep track of the word counts, which are useful for QA
Pipe wcPipe = new Pipe( "wc", tfPipe );

Fields count = new Fields( "count" );
wcPipe = new SumBy( wcPipe, tf_token, tf_count, count, long.class );
wcPipe = new Rename( wcPipe, tf_token, token );
----

Last, we’ll add another sink tap to the
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/flow/FlowDef.html[FlowDef], to include output data for our
TF-IDF weights:

[source,java]
----
// connect the taps, pipes, etc., into a flow
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef()
 .setName( "tfidf" )
 .addSource( docPipe, docTap )
 .addSource( stopPipe, stopTap )
 .addTailSink( tfidfPipe, tfidfTap )
 .addTailSink( wcPipe, wcTap );
----

We’ll change the name of the resulting Flow too, to keep our code properly
descriptive:

[source,java]
----
// write a DOT file and run the flow
Flow tfidfFlow = flowConnector.connect( flowDef );
tfidfFlow.writeDOT( "dot/tfidf.dot" );
tfidfFlow.complete();
----

Modify the `Main` method to make those changes, then build a JAR file. You should
be good to go. For those keeping score, the resulting physical plan in
Cascading for _Part 5_ now uses eleven mappers and nine reducers. That amount
jumped by 5x since our previous example.

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the `dot/` subdirectory after the
app runs. Here we have annotated it to show where the *mapper* and *reducer*
phases are running, and also the sections which were added since _Part 4_:

image:tfidf1.png[]

If you want to read in more detail about the classes in the Cascading API which
were used, see the Cascading 2.0 User Guide and JavaDoc.

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use, as always:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

Before running this sample app, you’ll need to have a supported release of
Apache Hadoop installed. Here’s what was used to develop and test our example
code:

    $ hadoop version
    Hadoop 1.1.2

To run this incarnation of our app, do this:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/wc data/en.stop output/tfidf

Output text gets stored in the partition file `output/tfidf` which you can then
verify:

    more output/tfidf/part-00000

BTW, did you notice what the TF-IDF weights for the tokens rain and shadow
were? Those represent what the documents have in common. How do those compare
with weights for the other tokens? Conversely, consider the weights for
australia (high weight) or area (different weights).

Here's a link:part5.log[log] file from our run of the
sample app, part 5. If your run looks terribly different, something is probably
not set up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum.


For those familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script, and to run that:

[source]
----
rm -rf output
mkdir -p dot
pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc -p stopPath=./data/en.stop -p tfidfPath=./output/tfidf ./src/scripts/tfidf.pig
----

Commit message:

added paragraph to the next part in each part and included a link back to the overview in the footer

impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient5.adoc, after:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 5

Part 5 - Implementing TF-IDF in Cascading
-----------------------------------------

This part builds on the Word Count app from the previous chapter and now
implements TF-IDF in Cascading. We'll show how to use a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/assembly/SumBy.html[SumBy]
and a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/CoGroup.html[CoGroup]
to aggregate the data needed, and then how to use an
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/expression/ExpressionFunction.html[ExpressionFunction]
to calculate the TF-IDF weights. We also continue to show best practices for
workflow orchestration and test-driven development (TDD) at scale.

Theory
~~~~~~

Fortunately, all of the data required to calculate TF-IDF weight was already
available in our Word Count example in Part 4. However, we’ll need to revise the
overall workflow, adding more pipe assemblies to it.

TF-IDF calculates a metric for each token which indicates how ``important'' that
token is to a document _within the context of a collection of documents_. The
metric is calculated based on relative frequencies. On one hand, tokens which
appear in most documents tend to have very low TF-IDF weights. On the other
hand, tokens which are less common but appear multiple times in a few documents
tend to have very high TF-IDF weights. Consequently, the TF-IDF algorithm gets
used to drive the indexing in some text search engines, such as
http://lucene.apache.org/core/[Apache Lucene].  In particular, TF-IDF provides
an effective way to rank documents for a search query. For a good discussion of
this in gory detail, see the
http://lucene.apache.org/core/2_9_4/api/all/org/apache/lucene/search/Similarity.html[Similarity]
class in Lucene.

Note that in the literature, `token` and `term` may be used interchangeably for
this sample app. More advanced text analytics might look at sequences of words,
in which case a `term` becomes a more complex structure. However, we’re only
looking at single words.

We’ll need the following components to calculate TF-IDF:

- term count: number of times a given term appears in a given document
- document frequency: how frequently a given term appears across all documents
- number of terms: total number of terms in a given document
- document count: total number of documents

Slight modifications to Word Count provides the means to get both term count
and document frequency, along with the other two components which get
calculated almost as by-products. In this sense, we get to leverage Cascading
by re-using the results of some pipes within our workflow. A conceptual diagram
for this implementation of TF-IDF in Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb5.png[scaledwidth="75%"]

Source
~~~~~~

Look for the `part5` directory, you will find everything in there.

First, let's add another sink tap to write the TF-IDF weights as an output data set:

[source,java]
----
String tfidfPath = args[ 3 ];
Tap tfidfTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( true, "\t" ), tfidfPath );
----

Next we'll modify the existing pipe assemblies for Word Count, beginning
immediately after the ``stop words'' filter. We add the following line to retain
only the doc_id and token fields:

[source,java]
----
tokenPipe = new Retain( tokenPipe, fieldSelector );
----

Then we re-use the intermediate results from `tokenPipe`, creating three
different branches in the workflow. The first addresses _term counts_:

[source,java]
----
// one branch of the flow tallies the token counts for term frequency (TF)
Pipe tfPipe = new Pipe( "TF", tokenPipe );
tfPipe = new GroupBy( tfPipe, new Fields( "doc_id", "token" ) );
Fields tf_count = new Fields( "tf_count" );
tfPipe = new Every( tfPipe, Fields.ALL, new Count( tf_count ), Fields.ALL );
Fields tf_token = new Fields( "tf_token" );
tfPipe = new Rename( tfPipe, token, tf_token );
----

At that point, we have _TF_ values for each token.

In a second branch we'll calculate _D_, the total number of documents in a way
which can be consumed later in a join. This uses a built-in partial aggregate
operation called
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/assembly/SumBy.html[SumBy]:

[source,java]
----
// one branch counts the number of documents (D)
Fields doc_id = new Fields( "doc_id" );
Fields tally = new Fields( "tally" );
Fields rhs_join = new Fields( "rhs_join" );
Fields n_docs = new Fields( "n_docs" );
Pipe dPipe = new Unique( "D", tokenPipe, doc_id );
dPipe = new Each( dPipe, new Insert( tally, 1 ), Fields.ALL );
dPipe = new Each( dPipe, new Insert( rhs_join, 1 ), Fields.ALL );
dPipe = new SumBy( dPipe, rhs_join, tally, n_docs, long.class );
----

This part may seem less than intuitive... and it is a bit odd. We need a total
document count as a field, in each tuple for the RHS of the join. That keeps
our processing parallel, allowing this calculation to scale-out horizontally.

The third branch calculates _DF_ as a step toward _inverse document frequency per
token_:

[source,java]
----
// one branch tallies the token counts for document frequency (DF)
Pipe dfPipe = new Unique( "DF", tokenPipe, Fields.ALL );
dfPipe = new GroupBy( dfPipe, token );
Fields df_count = new Fields( "df_count" );
Fields df_token = new Fields( "df_token" );
Fields lhs_join = new Fields( "lhs_join" );
dfPipe = new Every( dfPipe, Fields.ALL, new Count( df_count ), Fields.ALL );
dfPipe = new Rename( dfPipe, token, df_token );
dfPipe = new Each( dfPipe, new Insert( lhs_join, 1 ), Fields.ALL );
----

Now we have all the components needed to calculate TF-IDF weights. We’ll use two
kinds of joins - a HashJoin followed by a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/CoGroup.html[CoGroup] -
to merge the three branches together:

[source,java]
----
// join to bring together all the components for calculating TF-IDF
// the D side of the join is smaller, so it goes on the RHS
Pipe idfPipe = new HashJoin( dfPipe, lhs_join, dPipe, rhs_join );

// the IDF side of the join is smaller, so it goes on the RHS
Pipe tfidfPipe = new CoGroup( tfPipe, tf_token, idfPipe, df_token );
----

Then we calculate the weights using an
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/operation/expression/ExpressionFunction.html[ExpressionFunction]
in Cascading:

[source,java]
----
// calculate the TF-IDF weights, per token, per document
Fields tfidf = new Fields( "tfidf" );
String expression = "(double) tf_count * Math.log( (double) n_docs / ( 1.0 + df_count ) )";
ExpressionFunction tfidfExpression = new ExpressionFunction( tfidf, expression, Double.class );
Fields tfidfArguments = new Fields( "tf_count", "df_count", "n_docs" );
tfidfPipe = new Each( tfidfPipe, tfidfArguments, tfidfExpression, Fields.ALL );
fieldSelector = new Fields( "tf_token", "doc_id", "tfidf" );
tfidfPipe = new Retain( tfidfPipe, fieldSelector );
tfidfPipe = new Rename( tfidfPipe, tf_token, token );
----

Now we can get back to the remainder of the workflow. We’ll keep the actual
Word Count metrics, since those are useful for testing:

[source,java]
----
// keep track of the word counts, which are useful for QA
Pipe wcPipe = new Pipe( "wc", tfPipe );

Fields count = new Fields( "count" );
wcPipe = new SumBy( wcPipe, tf_token, tf_count, count, long.class );
wcPipe = new Rename( wcPipe, tf_token, token );
----

Last, we’ll add another sink tap to the
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/flow/FlowDef.html[FlowDef], to include output data for our
TF-IDF weights:

[source,java]
----
// connect the taps, pipes, etc., into a flow
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef()
 .setName( "tfidf" )
 .addSource( docPipe, docTap )
 .addSource( stopPipe, stopTap )
 .addTailSink( tfidfPipe, tfidfTap )
 .addTailSink( wcPipe, wcTap );
----

We’ll change the name of the resulting Flow too, to keep our code properly
descriptive:

[source,java]
----
// write a DOT file and run the flow
Flow tfidfFlow = flowConnector.connect( flowDef );
tfidfFlow.writeDOT( "dot/tfidf.dot" );
tfidfFlow.complete();
----

Modify the `Main` method to make those changes, then build a JAR file. You should
be good to go. For those keeping score, the resulting physical plan in
Cascading for _Part 5_ now uses eleven mappers and nine reducers. That amount
jumped by 5x since our previous example.

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the `dot/` subdirectory after the
app runs. Here we have annotated it to show where the *mapper* and *reducer*
phases are running, and also the sections which were added since _Part 4_:

image:tfidf1.png[]

If you want to read in more detail about the classes in the Cascading API which
were used, see the Cascading 2.0 User Guide and JavaDoc.

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use, as always:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

Before running this sample app, you’ll need to have a supported release of
Apache Hadoop installed. Here’s what was used to develop and test our example
code:

    $ hadoop version
    Hadoop 1.1.2

To run this incarnation of our app, do this:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/wc data/en.stop output/tfidf

Output text gets stored in the partition file `output/tfidf` which you can then
verify:

    more output/tfidf/part-00000

BTW, did you notice what the TF-IDF weights for the tokens rain and shadow
were? Those represent what the documents have in common. How do those compare
with weights for the other tokens? Conversely, consider the weights for
australia (high weight) or area (different weights).

Here's a link:part5.log[log] file from our run of the
sample app, part 5. If your run looks terribly different, something is probably
not set up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum.


For those familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script, and to run that:

[source]
----
rm -rf output
mkdir -p dot
pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc -p stopPath=./data/en.stop -p tfidfPath=./output/tfidf ./src/scripts/tfidf.pig
----

Next
----
link:impatient6.html[Part 6] of Cascading for the Impatient explores testing
with Cascading.
