impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient1.adoc, before:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 1

Part 1 - Distributed file copy
------------------------------

The lesson today is how to write a simple Cascading 2.2 app. The goal is clear
and concise: create the simplest application possible in Cascading, while
following best practices. No bangs, no whistles, just good solid code.

https://github.com/Cascading/Impatient/tree/master/part1

Here’s a brief Java program, about a dozen lines long. It copies lines of text
from file ``A`` to file ``B``. It uses 1 _mapper_ in
http://hadoop.apache.org[Apache Hadoop]. No _reducer_ needed.  A conceptual
diagram for this implementation in Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb1.png[]

Certainly this same work could be performed in much quicker ways, such as using
`cp` on Linux. However this Cascading example is merely a starting point. We’ll
build on this example, adding new pieces of code to explore features and
strengths of Cascading. We’ll keep building until we have a MapReduce
implementation of http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf*idf[TF-IDF] for scoring the
relative ``importance`` of keywords in a set of documents. In other words, Text
Mining 101. What you might find when you peek inside
http://lucene.apache.org[Lucene] for example, or some other text indexing
framework. Moreover, we’ll show how to use
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development[TDD] features of Cascading,
to build robust MapReduce apps for scale.

Source
~~~~~~

As explained in the introduction of the series, all code is hosted on github.
If you have not cloned the repository yet, please do it now:

    git clone git://github.com/Cascading/Impatient.git

First, we create a source tap to specify the input data. That data happens to be
formatted as tab-separated values (TSV) with a header row:

[source,java]
----
String inPath = args[ 0 ];
Tap inTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( true, "\t" ), inPath );
----

Next we create a sink tap to specify the output data, which is also TSV:

[source,java]
----
String outPath = args[ 1 ];
Tap outTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( true, "\t" ), outPath );
----

Then we create a pipe to connect the taps:


[source,java]
----
Pipe copyPipe = new Pipe( "copy" );
----

Here comes the fun part. Get your tool belt ready, because we need to do a
little plumbing… Connect the taps and pipes into a flow:

[source,java]
----
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef()
.addSource( copyPipe, inTap )
.addTailSink( copyPipe, outTap );
----

The notion of a http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Workflowi[workflow] lives at the
heart of Cascading. Instead of thinking in terms of mapper and reducer steps in
a MapReduce job, we prefer to think about apps. Real-world apps tend to use lots
of job steps. Those are connected and have dependencies, which are typically
specified by a http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph[directed
acyclic graph (DAG)]. Cascading uses
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/flow/FlowDef.html[`FlowDef`]
objects to define how a MapReduce app - a.k.a., a DAG of MapReduce job steps -
must be connected.

Now that we have a flow defined, the last line of code runs it:

[source,java]
----
flowConnector.connect( flowDef ).complete();
----

Place those source lines all into a `Main` method, then build a JAR file. You
should be good to go.

If you want to read in more detail about the classes in the Cascading API which
were used, see the
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/userguide/html/[Cascading 2.2 User
Guide] and http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/[JavaDoc].  

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

What you should have at this point is a JAR file which is nearly ready to drop
into your http://maven.apache.org[Maven] repo - almost. Actually, we provide a
community jar repository for Cascading libraries and extensions at
http://conjars.org 

Run
~~~

Before running this sample app, you’ll need to have a supported release of
http://hadoop.apache.org[Apache Hadoop] installed. Here’s what was used to
develop and test our example code:

    $ hadoop version
    Hadoop 1.2.1

Be sure to set your `HADOOP_HOME` environment variable. Then clear the output
directory (Apache Hadoop insists, if you’re running in standalone mode) and run
the app:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/rain

Notice how those command line arguments align with `args[]` in the source. The
file `data/rain.txt` gets copied, TSV row by TSV row. Output text gets stored in
the partition file `output/rain` which you can then verify:

    more output/rain/part-00000

Here's a link:part1.log[log file] from our run of the sample app. If your run
looks terribly different, something is probably not set up correctly. Drop us a
line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum. Plenty of experienced Cascading users are discussing taps and pipes and
flows there, and eager to help.

For those who are familiar with http://pig.apache.org[Apache Pig], we have
included a comparable script:

[source]
----
copyPipe = LOAD '$inPath' USING PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource');
STORE copyPipe INTO '$outPath' using PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource');
----

To run that, use:

    rm -rf output
    pig -p inPath=./data/rain.txt -p outPath=./output/rain ./src/scripts/copy.pig

That's it in a nutshell, our simplest app possible in Cascading. Not quite a
``Hello World``, but more like a `Hi there, bus stop``. Or something.

Commit message:

added paragraph to the next part in each part and included a link back to the overview in the footer

impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient1.adoc, after:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 1

Part 1 - Distributed file copy
------------------------------

The lesson today is how to write a simple Cascading 2.2 app. The goal is clear
and concise: create the simplest application possible in Cascading, while
following best practices. No bangs, no whistles, just good solid code.

https://github.com/Cascading/Impatient/tree/master/part1

Here’s a brief Java program, about a dozen lines long. It copies lines of text
from file ``A'' to file ``B''. It uses 1 _mapper_ in
http://hadoop.apache.org[Apache Hadoop]. No _reducer_ needed.  A conceptual
diagram for this implementation in Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb1.png[]

Certainly this same work could be performed in much quicker ways, such as using
`cp` on Linux. However this Cascading example is merely a starting point. We’ll
build on this example, adding new pieces of code to explore features and
strengths of Cascading. We’ll keep building until we have a MapReduce
implementation of http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf*idf[TF-IDF] for scoring the
relative ``importance'' of keywords in a set of documents. In other words, Text
Mining 101. What you might find when you peek inside
http://lucene.apache.org[Lucene] for example, or some other text indexing
framework. Moreover, we’ll show how to use
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development[TDD] features of Cascading,
to build robust MapReduce apps for scale.

Source
~~~~~~

As explained in the introduction of the series, all code is hosted on github.
If you have not cloned the repository yet, please do it now:

    git clone git://github.com/Cascading/Impatient.git

First, we create a source tap to specify the input data. That data happens to be
formatted as tab-separated values (TSV) with a header row:

[source,java]
----
String inPath = args[ 0 ];
Tap inTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( true, "\t" ), inPath );
----

Next we create a sink tap to specify the output data, which is also TSV:

[source,java]
----
String outPath = args[ 1 ];
Tap outTap = new Hfs( new TextDelimited( true, "\t" ), outPath );
----

Then we create a pipe to connect the taps:


[source,java]
----
Pipe copyPipe = new Pipe( "copy" );
----

Here comes the fun part. Get your tool belt ready, because we need to do a
little plumbing... Connect the taps and pipes into a flow:

[source,java]
----
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef()
.addSource( copyPipe, inTap )
.addTailSink( copyPipe, outTap );
----

The notion of a http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Workflowi[workflow] lives at the
heart of Cascading. Instead of thinking in terms of mapper and reducer steps in
a MapReduce job, we prefer to think about apps. Real-world apps tend to use lots
of job steps. Those are connected and have dependencies, which are typically
specified by a http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph[directed
acyclic graph (DAG)]. Cascading uses
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/flow/FlowDef.html[`FlowDef`]
objects to define how a MapReduce app - a.k.a., a DAG of MapReduce job steps -
must be connected.

Now that we have a flow defined, the last line of code runs it:

[source,java]
----
flowConnector.connect( flowDef ).complete();
----

Place those source lines all into a `Main` method, then build a JAR file. You
should be good to go.

If you want to read in more detail about the classes in the Cascading API which
were used, see the
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/userguide/html/[Cascading 2.2 User
Guide] and http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/[JavaDoc].

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

What you should have at this point is a JAR file which is nearly ready to drop
into your http://maven.apache.org[Maven] repo - almost. Actually, we provide a
community jar repository for Cascading libraries and extensions at
http://conjars.org 

Run
~~~

Before running this sample app, you’ll need to have a supported release of
http://hadoop.apache.org[Apache Hadoop] installed. Here’s what was used to
develop and test our example code:

    $ hadoop version
    Hadoop 1.2.1

Be sure to set your `HADOOP_HOME` environment variable. Then clear the output
directory (Apache Hadoop insists, if you’re running in standalone mode) and run
the app:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/rain

Notice how those command line arguments align with `args[]` in the source. The
file `data/rain.txt` gets copied, TSV row by TSV row. Output text gets stored in
the partition file `output/rain` which you can then verify:

    more output/rain/part-00000

Here's a link:part1.log[log file] from our run of the sample app. If your run
looks terribly different, something is probably not set up correctly. Drop us a
line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum. Plenty of experienced Cascading users are discussing taps and pipes and
flows there, and eager to help.

For those who are familiar with http://pig.apache.org[Apache Pig], we have
included a comparable script:

[source]
----
copyPipe = LOAD '$inPath' USING PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource');
STORE copyPipe INTO '$outPath' using PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource');
----

To run that, use:

    rm -rf output
    pig -p inPath=./data/rain.txt -p outPath=./output/rain ./src/scripts/copy.pig

That's it in a nutshell, our simplest app possible in Cascading. Not quite a
``Hello World'', but more like a `Hi there, bus stop''. Or something.

Next
----
Learn how to implement the classical word count with Cascading in
link:impatient2.html[Part 2] of Cascading for the Impatient.
