impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient2.adoc, before:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 2

Part 2 - Word count
-------------------

In our link:impatient1.html[first installment] of this series we showed how to
create the simplest possible Cascading 2.2 application. If you haven’t read that
yet, it’s probably best to start there.

Today’s lesson takes the same app and stretches it a bit further. Undoubtedly
you’ve seen Word Count before. We’d feel remiss if we did not provide a Word
Count example. It’s the ``Hello World`` of MapReduce apps. Fortunately, this
code is one of the basic steps toward developing a TF-IDF implementation. How
convenient. We’ll also show how to use Cascading to generate a visualization of
your MapReduce app. 

Theory
~~~~~~

Our example code in link:impatient1.html[Part 1] of this series showed how to
move data from point A to point B. It was simply a distributed file copy -
loading data via distributed tasks, an instance of the ``L`` in
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extract,_transform,_load[ETL].

That may seem overly simple, and it may seem like Cascading is overkill for
that kind of work. However, moving important data from point A to point B
reliably can be a crucial job to perform. This helps illustrate one of the key
reasons to use Cascading.

Let’s use an analogy of building a small ferris wheel. With a little bit of
imagination and some background in welding, a person could cobble together one
using old bicycles parts. In fact, those DIY ferris wheels show up at events
such as http://makerfaire.com/[Maker Faire]. Starting out, a person might
construct a little ferris wheel, just for demo. It might not hold anything
larger than hamsters, but it’s not a hard problem. With a bit more skill, a
person could probably build a somewhat larger instance, one that’s big enough
for small children to ride.

Let me ask this: how robust would a DIY ferris wheel need to be before you let
your kids ride on it? That’s precisely part of the challenge at an event like
Maker Faire. Makers must be able to build a device such as a ferris wheel out
of spare bicycle parts which is robust enough that strangers will let their
kids ride. Let’s hope those welds were made using best practices and good
materials, to avoid catastrophes.

That’s a key reason why Cascading was created. When you need to move a few Gb
from point A to point B, it’s probably simple enough to write a Bash script, or
just use a single command line copy. When your work requires some reshaping of
the data, then a few lines of Python will probably work fine. Run that Python
code from your Bash script and you’re done. I’ve used that approach many times,
when it fit the use case requirements. However, suppose you’re not moving just
Gb around? Suppose you’re moving Tb, or Pb? Bash scripts won’t get you very
far. Also think about this: suppose your app not only needs to move data from
point A to point B, but it must run within the constraints of an enterprise IT
shop. Millions of dollars and potentially even some jobs ride on the fact that
your app performs correctly. Day in and day out. That’s not unlike strangers
trusting a ferris wheel; they want to make sure it wasn’t just built out of
spare bicycle parts by some amateur welder. Robustness is key.

Or taking this analogy a few steps in another interesting direction... Perhaps
you’re not only moving data and reshaping it a little, but you’re applying some
interesting machine learning algorithms, some natural language processing,
resequencing genes... who knows. Those imply lots of resource use, lots of
potential expense in case of failures. Or lots of customer exposure. You’ll want
to use an application framework which is significantly more robust than a bunch
of scripts cobbled together.

With Cascading, you can package your entire MapReduce application, including
its orchestration and testing, within a single JAR file. You define all of that
within the context of one programming language - whether that language may be
Java, Scala, Clojure, Python, Ruby, etc. That way your tests are included
within a single program, not spread across several scripts written in different
languages. Having a single JAR file define the app also allows for typical
tooling required in enterprise IT: unit tests, stream assertions, revision
control, continuous integration, Maven repos, role-based configuration
management, advanced schedulers, monitoring and notifications, etc.

Those are key reasons why we make Cascading, why people use it for robust
MapReduce apps which run at scale.

Meanwhile, a conceptual diagram for this implementation of Word Count in
Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb2.png[]

Source
~~~~~~

The code of this example is in the `part2` sub-directory of the github
repository.

The input data stays the same as in the link:impatient1.html[part 1] of the
series.

Note that the names of the *taps* have changed. Instead of `inTap` and `outTap`,
we're now using `docTap` and `wcTap`. We’ll be adding more taps, so this will help
to have more descriptive names. Makes it simpler to follow all the plumbing.

Previously we defined a simple *pipe* to connect the *taps*. This example shows a
more complex pipe. We use a *generator* inside of an
ihttp://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/Each.html[Each], to split the document
text into a token stream. We use a regex to split on word boundaries:

[source,java]
----
Fields token = new Fields( "token" );
Fields text = new Fields( "text" );
RegexSplitGenerator splitter = new RegexSplitGenerator( token, "[ \\[\\]\\(\\),.]" );
// only returns "token"
Pipe docPipe = new Each( "token", text, splitter, Fields.RESULTS );
----

Out of that pipe, we’ll get a tuple stream of `token` to feed into the count. You
can change the regex to handle more complex cases of splitting tokens — without
having to rewrite a different generator class.

Next, we use a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/GroupBy.html[GroupBy]
to count the occurrences of each token:

[source,java]
----
Pipe wcPipe = new Pipe( "wc", docPipe );
wcPipe = new GroupBy( wcPipe, token );
wcPipe = new Every( wcPipe, Fields.ALL, new Count(), Fields.ALL );
----

From that pipe, we’ll have a resulting tuple stream of token and count for the
output. So we connect up the plumbing with a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/flow/FlowDef.html[FlowDef]:

[source,java]
----
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef().setName( "wc" )
.addSource( docPipe, docTap )
.addTailSink( wcPipe, wcTap );
----

Finally, we generate a DOT file, to depict the Cascading flow graphically. You
can load the DOT file into OmniGraffle or Visio. Those diagrams are really
helpful for troubleshooting MapReduce workflows in Cascading:

[source,java]
----
Flow wcFlow = flowConnector.connect( flowDef );
wcFlow.writeDOT( "dot/wc.dot" );
wcFlow.complete();
----

Place those source lines all into a `Main` method, then build a JAR file. You
should be good to go.

image:wc.png[]

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the `dot/` subdirectory. Here we
have annotated it to show where the mapper and reducer phases are running:

If you want to read in more detail about the classes in the Cascading API which
were used, see the Cascading 2.2
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/userguide/html/[User Guide] and
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.0/javadoc/[JavaDoc].

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

lear the output directory (Apache Hadoop insists, if you’re running in
standalone mode) and run the app:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/rain

Notice how those command line arguments align with args[] in the source. The
file `data/rain.txt` gets copied, TSV row by TSV row. Output text gets stored in
the partition file `output/rain` which you can then verify:

    more output/rain/part-00000

Here's a link:part2.log[log file] from our run of
the sample app, part 2. If your run looks terribly different, something is
probably not set up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum.

For those who are familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script:

[source]
----
docPipe = LOAD '$docPath' USING PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource') AS (doc_id, text);
docPipe = FILTER docPipe BY doc_id != 'doc_id';
-- specify a regex operation to split the "document" text lines into a token stream
tokenPipe = FOREACH docPipe GENERATE doc_id, FLATTEN(TOKENIZE(text, ' [](),.')) AS token;
tokenPipe = FILTER tokenPipe BY token MATCHES '\\w.*';
-- determine the word counts
tokenGroups = GROUP tokenPipe BY token;
wcPipe = FOREACH tokenGroups GENERATE group AS token, COUNT(tokenPipe) AS count;
-- output
STORE wcPipe INTO '$wcPath' using PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource');
EXPLAIN -out dot/wc_pig.dot -dot wcPipe;
----

To run that, use:

    rm -rf output
    mkdir -p dot
    pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc ./src/scripts/wc.pig

So that’s our Word Count example. Twenty lines of yummy goodness.

Commit message:

added paragraph to the next part in each part and included a link back to the overview in the footer

impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient2.adoc, after:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 2

Part 2 - Word count
-------------------

In our link:impatient1.html[first installment] of this series we showed how to
create the simplest possible Cascading 2.2 application. If you haven’t read that
yet, it’s probably best to start there.

Today’s lesson takes the same app and stretches it a bit further. Undoubtedly
you’ve seen Word Count before. We’d feel remiss if we did not provide a Word
Count example. It’s the ``Hello World'' of MapReduce apps. Fortunately, this
code is one of the basic steps toward developing a TF-IDF implementation. How
convenient. We’ll also show how to use Cascading to generate a visualization of
your MapReduce app. 

Theory
~~~~~~

Our example code in link:impatient1.html[Part 1] of this series showed how to
move data from point A to point B. It was simply a distributed file copy -
loading data via distributed tasks, an instance of the ``L'' in
link:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extract,\_transform,_load[ETL].

That may seem overly simple, and it may seem like Cascading is overkill for
that kind of work. However, moving important data from point A to point B
reliably can be a crucial job to perform. This helps illustrate one of the key
reasons to use Cascading.

Let’s use an analogy of building a small ferris wheel. With a little bit of
imagination and some background in welding, a person could cobble together one
using old bicycles parts. In fact, those DIY ferris wheels show up at events
such as http://makerfaire.com/[Maker Faire]. Starting out, a person might
construct a little ferris wheel, just for demo. It might not hold anything
larger than hamsters, but it’s not a hard problem. With a bit more skill, a
person could probably build a somewhat larger instance, one that’s big enough
for small children to ride.

Let me ask this: how robust would a DIY ferris wheel need to be before you let
your kids ride on it? That’s precisely part of the challenge at an event like
Maker Faire. Makers must be able to build a device such as a ferris wheel out
of spare bicycle parts which is robust enough that strangers will let their
kids ride. Let’s hope those welds were made using best practices and good
materials, to avoid catastrophes.

That’s a key reason why Cascading was created. When you need to move a few Gb
from point A to point B, it’s probably simple enough to write a Bash script, or
just use a single command line copy. When your work requires some reshaping of
the data, then a few lines of Python will probably work fine. Run that Python
code from your Bash script and you’re done. I’ve used that approach many times,
when it fit the use case requirements. However, suppose you’re not moving just
Gb around? Suppose you’re moving Tb, or Pb? Bash scripts won’t get you very
far. Also think about this: suppose your app not only needs to move data from
point A to point B, but it must run within the constraints of an enterprise IT
shop. Millions of dollars and potentially even some jobs ride on the fact that
your app performs correctly. Day in and day out. That’s not unlike strangers
trusting a ferris wheel; they want to make sure it wasn’t just built out of
spare bicycle parts by some amateur welder. Robustness is key.

Or taking this analogy a few steps in another interesting direction... Perhaps
you’re not only moving data and reshaping it a little, but you’re applying some
interesting machine learning algorithms, some natural language processing,
resequencing genes... who knows. Those imply lots of resource use, lots of
potential expense in case of failures. Or lots of customer exposure. You’ll want
to use an application framework which is significantly more robust than a bunch
of scripts cobbled together.

With Cascading, you can package your entire MapReduce application, including
its orchestration and testing, within a single JAR file. You define all of that
within the context of one programming language - whether that language may be
Java, Scala, Clojure, Python, Ruby, etc. That way your tests are included
within a single program, not spread across several scripts written in different
languages. Having a single JAR file define the app also allows for typical
tooling required in enterprise IT: unit tests, stream assertions, revision
control, continuous integration, Maven repos, role-based configuration
management, advanced schedulers, monitoring and notifications, etc.

Those are key reasons why we make Cascading, why people use it for robust
MapReduce apps which run at scale.

Meanwhile, a conceptual diagram for this implementation of Word Count in
Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb2.png[]

Source
~~~~~~

The code of this example is in the `part2` sub-directory of the github
repository.

The input data stays the same as in the link:impatient1.html[part 1] of the
series.

Note that the names of the *taps* have changed. Instead of `inTap` and `outTap`,
we're now using `docTap` and `wcTap`. We’ll be adding more taps, so this will help
to have more descriptive names. Makes it simpler to follow all the plumbing.

Previously we defined a simple *pipe* to connect the *taps*. This example shows a
more complex pipe. We use a *generator* inside of an
ihttp://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/Each.html[Each], to split the document
text into a token stream. We use a regex to split on word boundaries:

[source,java]
----
Fields token = new Fields( "token" );
Fields text = new Fields( "text" );
RegexSplitGenerator splitter = new RegexSplitGenerator( token, "[ \\[\\]\\(\\),.]" );
// only returns "token"
Pipe docPipe = new Each( "token", text, splitter, Fields.RESULTS );
----

Out of that pipe, we’ll get a tuple stream of `token` to feed into the count. You
can change the regex to handle more complex cases of splitting tokens — without
having to rewrite a different generator class.

Next, we use a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/pipe/GroupBy.html[GroupBy]
to count the occurrences of each token:

[source,java]
----
Pipe wcPipe = new Pipe( "wc", docPipe );
wcPipe = new GroupBy( wcPipe, token );
wcPipe = new Every( wcPipe, Fields.ALL, new Count(), Fields.ALL );
----

From that pipe, we’ll have a resulting tuple stream of token and count for the
output. So we connect up the plumbing with a
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/javadoc/cascading/flow/FlowDef.html[FlowDef]:

[source,java]
----
FlowDef flowDef = FlowDef.flowDef().setName( "wc" )
.addSource( docPipe, docTap )
.addTailSink( wcPipe, wcTap );
----

Finally, we generate a DOT file, to depict the Cascading flow graphically. You
can load the DOT file into OmniGraffle or Visio. Those diagrams are really
helpful for troubleshooting MapReduce workflows in Cascading:

[source,java]
----
Flow wcFlow = flowConnector.connect( flowDef );
wcFlow.writeDOT( "dot/wc.dot" );
wcFlow.complete();
----

Place those source lines all into a `Main` method, then build a JAR file. You
should be good to go.

image:wc.png[]

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the `dot/` subdirectory. Here we
have annotated it to show where the mapper and reducer phases are running:

If you want to read in more detail about the classes in the Cascading API which
were used, see the Cascading 2.2
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.1/userguide/html/[User Guide] and
http://docs.cascading.org/cascading/2.0/javadoc/[JavaDoc].

Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

lear the output directory (Apache Hadoop insists, if you’re running in
standalone mode) and run the app:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/rain

Notice how those command line arguments align with args[] in the source. The
file `data/rain.txt` gets copied, TSV row by TSV row. Output text gets stored in
the partition file `output/rain` which you can then verify:

    more output/rain/part-00000

Here's a link:part2.log[log file] from our run of
the sample app, part 2. If your run looks terribly different, something is
probably not set up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum.

For those who are familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script:

[source]
----
docPipe = LOAD '$docPath' USING PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource') AS (doc_id, text);
docPipe = FILTER docPipe BY doc_id != 'doc_id';
-- specify a regex operation to split the "document" text lines into a token stream
tokenPipe = FOREACH docPipe GENERATE doc_id, FLATTEN(TOKENIZE(text, ' [](),.')) AS token;
tokenPipe = FILTER tokenPipe BY token MATCHES '\\w.*';
-- determine the word counts
tokenGroups = GROUP tokenPipe BY token;
wcPipe = FOREACH tokenGroups GENERATE group AS token, COUNT(tokenPipe) AS count;
-- output
STORE wcPipe INTO '$wcPath' using PigStorage('\t', 'tagsource');
EXPLAIN -out dot/wc_pig.dot -dot wcPipe;
----

To run that, use:

    rm -rf output
    mkdir -p dot
    pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc ./src/scripts/wc.pig

So that is our Word Count example. Twenty lines of yummy goodness.

Next
----
Learn how to write custom Operations to clean your data in
link:impatient3.html[Part 3] of Cascading for the Impatient.
