impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient3.adoc, before:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 3

Part 3 - Scrubbing
-----------------

In the link:impatient2.html[previous installement] we have implemented the
famous Word Count as a Cascading 2.2 application.

This part takes the same app and stretches it even more. We’ll show how to write
a custom Operation. Again, this code is leading toward an implementation of
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf*idf[TF-IDF] in Cascading. We’ll show best
practices for workflow orchestration and
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development[test-driven development
(TDD)] at scale.

Theory
~~~~~~

This example in Part 3 uses a custom *operation* in Cascading to ``scrub`` the
token stream, prior to counting the tokens. Previously we used a
RegexSplitGenerator to tokenize the text, which is a built-in operation and
works pretty well. However, one thing you’ll find in working with most any text
analytics at scale is that there are lots and lots of edge cases. Cleaning up
the edge cases generally represents the bulk of the engineering work in text
analytics. Hyphens, exponents, different kinds of quotes, etc. If you try to
incorporate every possible edge case into a regex, that tends to becomes complex
and brittle. Identifying edge cases is an iterative process, based on learnings
over time, based on operations at scale. Also, each application will tend to
have its own nuances, which makes it difficult to leverage standard libraries
for text processing.

So we subclass the Operation class in Cascading and work through all the edge
cases, adding more as they get identified. An added benefit is that we can also
add unit tests to our custom class, with test coverage increasing as each new
issue gets found. More about unit tests later.

Operations get used in Cascading to perform the ``T`` part of
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extract,_transform,_load[ETL]. In other words,
operations act on the data to transform the tuple stream, filter it, analyze it,
etc. Think what roles command line utilities such as `grep` or `awk` perform in Unix
shell scripts. Cascading provides a rich library of standard operations, to
encode the ``business logic`` of transforming ``Big Data``. It’s relatively simple
to develop your own custom operations, and our text “scrubbing” example here
shows a good use case. However, if you find yourself starting to develop _lots_ of
custom operations every time you begin to write a Cascading app, that’s a good
indication that you need to step back and reevaluate. On one hand, the standard
operations have been developed over the years and they tend to cover a large
class of MapReduce applications. On the other hand, if you aren’t careful while
defining a custom operation, you may inadvertently introduce a bottleneck. The
standard operations encapsulate best practices and design patterns for
parallelism. Something to think about.

Meanwhile, a conceptual diagram for this implementation of Word Count in
Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb3.png[]

Source
~~~~~~

You can find the code of this part in the `part3` subdirectory. The input data
stays the same as in the earlier code

First, let’s make room for using our custom operation `ScrubFunction` to clean up
the token stream. We place it into the `docPipe` assembly, immediately after the
regex which splits the raw text:

[source,java]
----
Fields scrubArguments = new Fields( "doc_id", "token" );
docPipe = new Each( docPipe, scrubArguments, new ScrubFunction( scrubArguments ), Fields.RESULTS );
----

Next, we need to define a constructor for our custom operation:

[source,java]
----
public ScrubFunction( Fields fieldDeclaration )
  {
  super( 2, fieldDeclaration );
  }
----

The `fieldDeclaration` parameter allows us to name the tuple fields from the
flow. Since we’ll output the results as TSV, a header will be created from the
tuple fields.

Next, we define an `operate` method. In other words, we define the function which
operates on the tuple stream. This is essentially a wrapper which pulls tuples
from the input stream, applies our scrubText method to each token, then inserts
new tuples into the output stream:

[source,java]
----
public void operate( FlowProcess flowProcess, FunctionCall functionCall )
  {
  TupleEntry argument = functionCall.getArguments();
  String doc_id = argument.getString( 0 );
  String token = scrubText( argument.getString( 1 ) );

  if( token.length() > 0 )
    {
    Tuple result = new Tuple();
    result.add( doc_id );
    result.add( token );
    functionCall.getOutputCollector().add( result );
    }
  }
----

Last but not least, we define the `scrubText` method to clean up tokens. This
version is relatively simple, and in practice it would have many more cases.
It’s also relatively simple to write unit tests against:

[source,java]
----
public String scrubText( String text )
  {
  return text.trim().toLowerCase();
  }
----

Place that first set of source lines all into a `Main` method, create an
additional class for `ScrubFunction` for the rest of the source shown, then build
a JAR file. You should be good to go.

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the `dot/` subdirectory after the
app runs. Here we have annotated it to show where the mapper and reducer phases
are running, and also the section which was added since Part 2:

image:wc1.png[]


Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

Run the app like this:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/wc

Output text gets stored in the partition file `output/wc1` which you can then
verify:

    more output/wc/part-00000

Here's a link:part3.log[log] file from our run of the sample
app, part 3. If your run looks terribly different, something is probably not set
up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum.

For those familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script, and to run that:

    rm -rf output
    mkdir -p dot
    pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc -p stopPath=./data/en.stop ./src/scripts/wc.pig

Commit message:

added paragraph to the next part in each part and included a link back to the overview in the footer

impatient-docs/src/asciidoc/impatient3.adoc, after:

# Cascading for the Impatient, Part 3

Part 3 - Scrubbing
-----------------

In the link:impatient2.html[previous installement] we have implemented the
famous Word Count as a Cascading 2.2 application.

This part takes the same app and stretches it even more. We’ll show how to write
a custom Operation. Again, this code is leading toward an implementation of
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf*idf[TF-IDF] in Cascading. We’ll show best
practices for workflow orchestration and
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development[test-driven development
(TDD)] at scale.

Theory
~~~~~~

This example in Part 3 uses a custom *operation* in Cascading to ``scrub'' the
token stream, prior to counting the tokens. Previously we used a
RegexSplitGenerator to tokenize the text, which is a built-in operation and
works pretty well. However, one thing you’ll find in working with most any text
analytics at scale is that there are lots and lots of edge cases. Cleaning up
the edge cases generally represents the bulk of the engineering work in text
analytics. Hyphens, exponents, different kinds of quotes, etc. If you try to
incorporate every possible edge case into a regex, that tends to becomes complex
and brittle. Identifying edge cases is an iterative process, based on learnings
over time, based on operations at scale. Also, each application will tend to
have its own nuances, which makes it difficult to leverage standard libraries
for text processing.

So we subclass the Operation class in Cascading and work through all the edge
cases, adding more as they get identified. An added benefit is that we can also
add unit tests to our custom class, with test coverage increasing as each new
issue gets found. More about unit tests later.

Operations get used in Cascading to perform the ``T'' part of
link:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extract,\_transform,_load[ETL]. In other words,
operations act on the data to transform the tuple stream, filter it, analyze it,
etc. Think what roles command line utilities such as `grep` or `awk` perform in Unix
shell scripts. Cascading provides a rich library of standard operations, to
encode the ``business logic'' of transforming ``Big Data''. It’s relatively simple
to develop your own custom operations, and our text ``scrubbing'' example here
shows a good use case. However, if you find yourself starting to develop _lots_ of
custom operations every time you begin to write a Cascading app, that’s a good
indication that you need to step back and reevaluate. On one hand, the standard
operations have been developed over the years and they tend to cover a large
class of MapReduce applications. On the other hand, if you aren’t careful while
defining a custom operation, you may inadvertently introduce a bottleneck. The
standard operations encapsulate best practices and design patterns for
parallelism. Something to think about.

Meanwhile, a conceptual diagram for this implementation of Word Count in
Cascading is shown as:

image:plumb3.png[]

Source
~~~~~~

You can find the code of this part in the `part3` subdirectory. The input data
stays the same as in the earlier code

First, let’s make room for using our custom operation `ScrubFunction` to clean up
the token stream. We place it into the `docPipe` assembly, immediately after the
regex which splits the raw text:

[source,java]
----
Fields scrubArguments = new Fields( "doc_id", "token" );
docPipe = new Each( docPipe, scrubArguments, new ScrubFunction( scrubArguments ), Fields.RESULTS );
----

Next, we need to define a constructor for our custom operation:

[source,java]
----
public ScrubFunction( Fields fieldDeclaration )
  {
  super( 2, fieldDeclaration );
  }
----

The `fieldDeclaration` parameter allows us to name the tuple fields from the
flow. Since we’ll output the results as TSV, a header will be created from the
tuple fields.

Next, we define an `operate` method. In other words, we define the function which
operates on the tuple stream. This is essentially a wrapper which pulls tuples
from the input stream, applies our scrubText method to each token, then inserts
new tuples into the output stream:

[source,java]
----
public void operate( FlowProcess flowProcess, FunctionCall functionCall )
  {
  TupleEntry argument = functionCall.getArguments();
  String doc_id = argument.getString( 0 );
  String token = scrubText( argument.getString( 1 ) );

  if( token.length() > 0 )
    {
    Tuple result = new Tuple();
    result.add( doc_id );
    result.add( token );
    functionCall.getOutputCollector().add( result );
    }
  }
----

Last but not least, we define the `scrubText` method to clean up tokens. This
version is relatively simple, and in practice it would have many more cases.
It’s also relatively simple to write unit tests against:

[source,java]
----
public String scrubText( String text )
  {
  return text.trim().toLowerCase();
  }
----

Place that first set of source lines all into a `Main` method, create an
additional class for `ScrubFunction` for the rest of the source shown, then build
a JAR file. You should be good to go.

The diagram for the Cascading flow will be in the `dot/` subdirectory after the
app runs. Here we have annotated it to show where the mapper and reducer phases
are running, and also the section which was added since Part 2:

image:wc1.png[]


Build
~~~~~

To build the sample app from the command line use:

    gradle clean jar

Run
~~~

Run the app like this:

    rm -rf output
    hadoop jar ./build/libs/impatient.jar data/rain.txt output/wc

Output text gets stored in the partition file `output/wc1` which you can then
verify:

    more output/wc/part-00000

Here's a link:part3.log[log] file from our run of the sample
app, part 3. If your run looks terribly different, something is probably not set
up correctly. Drop us a line on the
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cascading-user[cascading-user] email
forum.

For those familiar with Apache Pig, we have included a comparable script, and to run that:

    rm -rf output
    mkdir -p dot
    pig -p docPath=./data/rain.txt -p wcPath=./output/wc -p stopPath=./data/en.stop ./src/scripts/wc.pig

Next
----
In link:impatient4.html[Part 4] of Cascading for the Impatient you will
learn how to implement a stop word filter.
